ever wondered what it takes to build
your own buggy wide wheels TV caught up
with Bradley Bishop from the southern
highlands of New South Wales where he is
in the process of building his new buggy
car 317 mod wheels TV will fall I grab
these progress right through to the
first race day I'm in the middle of
building a new sportsmen class buggy
with verses uki 1300 and a combi
four-speed gearbox I'm hoping to have
the car finished in a couple of months
time and looking forward to getting back
into the new south wales state
championship I first started by making a
jig which is the blue part and those
extra parts which come up to support the
main bar so I bent the bottom bar and
what's known as the hip rail and then I
went away for a couple of weeks and made
all the supports in the middle to weld
it together and then I put the next part
of G go on and went up again from that
at this point of time the basic frame
itself is done and now I'm starting to
add all the accessories to it EG the
seats the fuel tank starting to work on
the front suspension now and then I'll
move on to the rear suspension the fuel
tank is a aluminium fuel tank that's
been custom-made it holds about 80
litres with baffles in the middle of it
and stop fuel search currently in the
middle of mounting the gearstick and the
turning break in optimal position of
where I'm comfortable the arm turning
break is basically a one-way directional
handbrake so you can put one way to lock
wondering will push it the other to lock
the other the fraternity and gear stick
puts up to the combi transmission at the
moment I've gone to making the brake
caliper mount from bit stuck waiting for
parts to continue on with the front
steering and suspension next step is
mounting the steering rack and trying to
work out to get minimal bump steer and
then go on and make the front shock
mounts to get optimum travel I work on
the vehicle most afternoons after work
for about two hours and then I come in
on weekends and almost there time
basically this car is going to be number
317 it's the number i've run since i
started racing 3 is the class that's
going to be in and see
because I'll just about 10 17 when I
started racing I got into the sport
through David the owner of car 190 I
approached him looking for a job when I
left school and he was already into the
sport and I started on Row racing with
him first started racing one of his cars
and then I went on to building and
making my own I've been racing now for
six years the first car I had was a
vivir Commodore which was actually owned
by David I raced it for about 12 to 18
months I started out driving I wanted to
go quicker than the car could actually
go so then i bought my first buggy we
built it up and now this is my third car
which i'm starting because the other one
was getting a bit old eventually going
to put a suzuki 1300 it's been built for
the sportsman's class can't wait till i
get up to that stage because that means
I'm just about out on the racetrack
oh yeah we had had an issue in the
prologue we actually stopped ran out of
gears got jammed in neutral so we've got
tied back after the prologue and we go
the basically pull the gearbox apart and
try and fix this selector Tommy other
pit crew and even David the Foresters
give me a hand the folks that's coming
running second to me so it's all good
the first date was alright but we had a
couple of whoop stirrers and hit a few
trees along the way but ended up pretty
good overall some of the rights are
pretty deep and we're getting spun out
and start out from them but I tried to
keep it off the track
we raced here at nabi act last year we
finished second in the pro buggy class
course looks fairly good we heard that
it was very wet but there's a bit of
water lying around but it's going to get
dusty the scenes of it chopped up better
than your nice track here we've got a
turbo issue so we just want to fix it
about the moment we've changed the turbo
boost gauge we've changed the oil
pressure line gauge and we're about to
go out and see if it's okay Mia and
thence here we go the rest of day
don't roast control at nebbia my primary
role is to take care of all the cars on
the track to know where all the cars are
if any cars break down I've got to find
where they are I'd then direct the
recoveries to where they are to pull
them back so that we can get them off
out of the area after the race is
finished and make the track safe for the
next race I've been involved for the
last eight years the first five years i
was actually road closure caught
watching the cars go past and for the
last three years I've actually been
doing this job and yeah this is the
greatest job out here because I'm the
one who's going to know where all the
cars are and I tell the director and
what's going on and everything runs
through me so it's a great job it's
great weekend lots of fun
and second eight we went out went out
with 424 Christie Headley and she got us
to the front first long walk to the
first corner and now pull it all the way
through the dust then she got bogged at
the back coming back around went to
overtake a car and coming into a corner
and the tie rod end on the left hand
side of the car broke off and we went
yonder out into the end of the scrub and
come back onto the track and then we end
up getting bold and we've run back to
the pits see if of your fonts find
another toilet in didn't have one so we
went back out watch the car up and just
short cutters and come back to the pits
there there while the car was booked
because it was sort of half on the track
one of the cars that were competing at a
time come come around sort of went to
slide in to Gary Anderson stove tanks
laughing and hit the back of your car
broke all its broke the extractors and
fit a scratch on the paint and nothing
we can't fix it
you
the main game plan is the finished
produced the race tomorrow without any
problems with getting really rough out
there now
and have a good day uh yeah we had a
really good first heat we got quicker
and quicker our times improved however
the track got really really buggy and
rough out there and second heat for flat
we got bogged and that's where we stayed
for the rest of the heat so
unfortunately we didn't finish second
heat but hopefully yeah tomorrow will be
dead off you've been watching while
wheels to the